RHDHPAI-808: Developer Lightspeed content RHDH (#1300)
redhat-developer/red-hat-developers-documentation-rhdh: modules/developer-lightspeed/proc-installing-and-configuring-lightspeed.adoc

// ARCHIVED

:_mod-docs-content-type: PROCEDURE
[id="proc-installing-and-configuring-lightspeed_{context}"]
= Installing and configuring {ls-brand-name}

You must install and configure both the {ls-short} and the {rcs-short} sidecar container manually.

.Prerequisites
* You are logged into your {ocp-short} account.
* You have an {product-very-short} instance installed either of the following ways:
** link:{installing-on-ocp-book-url}#assembly-install-rhdh-ocp-operator[Using the Operator]
** link:{installing-on-ocp-book-url}#assembly-install-rhdh-ocp-helm[Using the Helm chart]

.Procedure

. Create the {rcs-short} ConfigMap.
.. In the {ocp-short} web console, go to your {product-very-short} instance and select the *ConfigMaps* tab.
.. Click *Create ConfigMaps*.
.. From the *Create ConfigMap* page, select the *YAML view* option in *Configure via*, and edit the file as shown in the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
kind: ConfigMap
apiVersion: v1
metadata:
 name: rcsconfig
 namespace: _<namespace>_ # Enter your namespace (For example, `rhdh`)
data:
 rcsconfig.yaml: |

>    llm_providers:
>      - name: dummy
>  type: openai
>  url: https://dummy.com
>  models:
>    - name: dummymodel
>  ols_config:
>      conversation_cache:
>        type: memory
>        memory:
>          max_entries: 1000
>      authentication_config:
>        module: "noop"
>      default_provider: dummy
>      default_model: dummymodel
>      query_validation_method: llm
>      user_data_collection:
>        feedback_disabled: false
>        feedback_storage: "/app-root/tmp/data/feedback"
> dev_config:
>   enable_dev_ui: false
>   disable_auth: false
>   disable_tls: true
>   enable_system_prompt_override: true
> user_data_collector_config:
>   ingress_url: "https://example.ingress.com/upload"
>   user_agent: "example-agent"

Reviewer: Fix Indentation:

```suggestion
  llm_providers:
    - name: dummy
      type: openai
      url: 'https://dummy.com'
      models:
        - name: dummymodel
  ols_config:
    conversation_cache:
      type: memory
      memory:
        max_entries: 1000
      authentication_config:
        module: noop
      default_provider: dummy
      default_model: dummymodel
      query_validation_method: llm
    user_data_collection:
      feedback_disabled: false
      feedback_storage: /app-root/tmp/data/feedback
  dev_config:
    enable_dev_ui: false
    disable_auth: false
    disable_tls: true
    enable_system_prompt_override: true
  user_data_collector_config:
    ingress_url: 'https://example.ingress.com/upload'
    user_agent: example-agent
```

----
.. Optional: Configure the number of workers that scale the REST API by specifying the following example to the `rcs_config.max_workers` parameter in the {rcs-short} ConfigMap.
+
[source,yaml]
----
rcs_config:
    max_workers: _<number_of_workers>_
----
.. Click *Create*.

. Create the {ls-short} ConfigMap.
+
[NOTE]
====
Create a dedicated {ls-short} ConfigMap instead of adding an additional section to your existing {product-very-short} custom application configuration file (for example, `custom-app-config.yaml`). Creating two files prevents the entire {product-very-short} ConfigMap from being loaded into {rcs-short}.
====
.. In the {ocp-short} web console, go to your {product-very-short} instance and select the *ConfigMaps* tab.
.. Click *Create ConfigMap*.
.. From the *Create ConfigMap* page, select the *YAML view* option in *Configure via*, and add the following example:
+
[source,yaml]
----
data:
  app-config.yaml: |-

>     backend:
>   csp:
>    upgrade-insecure-requests: false
>    img-src:
>     - "'self'"
>     - "data:"
>     - https://img.freepik.com
>     - https://cdn.dribbble.com
>     - https://avatars.githubusercontent.com # This is to load GitHub avatars in the UI
> 
>    script-src:
>      - "'self'"
>      - https://cdn.jsdelivr.net
> 
> lightspeed:
>       # REQUIRED: Configure LLM servers with OpenAI API compatibility
>       servers:
>       - id: ${LLM_SERVER_ID}
>         url: ${LLM_SERVER_URL}
>         token: ${LLM_SERVER_TOKEN}
> 
> # OPTIONAL: Custom users prompts displayed to users
> # If not provided, the plugin uses built-in default prompts
> prompts:
> - title: 'Getting Started with Red Hat Developer Hub'
>   message: Can you guide me through the first steps to start using Developer Hub as a developer, like exploring the Software Catalog and adding my service?
> 
> # OPTIONAL: Port for lightspeed service (default: 8080).
> # If set, this value should be in sync with uvicorn_port_number in olsconfig.
> # servicePort: ${LIGHTSPEED_SERVICE_PORT}

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    backend:
      csp:
         upgrade-insecure-requests: false
       img-src:
          - "'self'"
          - "data:"
          - https://img.freepik.com
          - https://cdn.dribbble.com
          - https://avatars.githubusercontent.com # This is to load GitHub avatars in the UI
       script-src:
           - "'self'"
           - https://cdn.jsdelivr.net
    
    lightspeed:
      # REQUIRED: Configure LLM servers with OpenAI API compatibility
      servers:
        - id: ${LIGHTSPEED_SERVER_ID}
          url: ${LIGHTSPEED_SERVER_URL}
          token: ${LIGHTSPEED_SERVER_TOKEN}
    
      # OPTIONAL: Enable/disable question validation (default: true)
      # When enabled, restricts questions to RHDH-related topics for better security
      questionValidation: true 
    
      # OPTIONAL: Custom users prompts displayed to users
      # If not provided, the plugin uses built-in default prompts
      prompts:
        - title: 'Getting Started with Red Hat Developer Hub'
          message: Can you guide me through the first steps to start using Developer Hub as a developer, like exploring the Software Catalog and adding my service?
    
      # OPTIONAL: Port for lightspeed service (default: 8080)
      # servicePort: ${LIGHTSPEED_SERVICE_PORT}
    
      # OPTIONAL: Override default RHDH system prompt
      # systemPrompt: "You are a helpful assistant focused on Red Hat Developer Hub development."
```
